add glossary and faqs (#786)
LF-Decentralized-Trust-labs/paladin: doc-site/docs/glossary.md

### Atomic Programmability

**Atomic Programmability** is a core Paladin feature that allows developers to define and execute complex, multi-step workflows as a single, indivisible transaction. This is true even when those steps span multiple, independent systems or ledgers—a capability known as **atomic interoperability**.

This guarantees the entire workflow is treated as one "atomic" unit: either all operations succeed together, or if any single part fails, the entire transaction is rolled back. For a developer, this all-or-nothing principle is crucial for building reliable applications that involve multiple assets or services, ensuring data remains consistent across all environments without complex manual reconciliation.

***

### Besu

> **Hyperledger Besu** is an open-source **[Ethereum client](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine)** developed under the Linux Foundation's Hyperledger project and written in Java. An Ethereum client is the software that implements the Ethereum protocol, allowing a computer to act as a node on the network. Besu is notable for its versatility, as it's designed to run on both the public Ethereum Mainnet and private, permissioned enterprise networks, making it a popular choice for projects that require customized privacy and permissioning features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**LFDT Besu** is an open-source **[Ethereum client](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine)** developed under the Linux Foundation's Decentralized Trust and written in Java. An Ethereum client is the software that implements the Ethereum protocol, allowing a computer to act as a node on the network. Besu is notable for its versatility, as it's designed to run on both the public Ethereum Mainnet and private, permissioned enterprise networks, making it a popular choice for projects that require customized privacy and permissioning features.
```

***

### Ledger Layers

Paladin's architecture uses a layered approach to separate private computation from public settlement. While it relies on a standard **base ledger** (like an [EVM-compatible](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine) blockchain) to provide final consensus and an immutable record of transactions, Paladin's unique value comes from its **private execution layers**. These layers, implemented as **[Domains](#domain)**, handle the confidential aspects of a transaction off-chain. Only a cryptographic commitment or proof is sent to the base ledger for validation. This design allows developers to leverage the security of a public blockchain while executing complex, private logic in a scalable and confidential manner.

***

### noto

> The **noto** domain is a specialized environment within Paladin for managing **confidential [UTXO](#utxo-unspent-transaction-output) tokens under the control of a [Notary](#notary)**. It enables the creation and transfer of tokens where ownership and value are kept private from the public, while a trusted notary service enforces the rules of the token. For a developer, `noto` provides a straightforward way to implement asset privacy where governance by a designated arbiter is acceptable or desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **noto** domain is a reference domain provided with Paladin for managing **confidential [UTXO](#utxo-unspent-transaction-output) tokens under the control of a [Notary](#notary)**. It enables the creation and transfer of tokens where ownership and value are kept private from the public, while a trusted notary service enforces the rules of the token. For a developer, `noto` provides a straightforward way to implement asset privacy where governance by a designated arbiter is acceptable or desired.
```

***

### Notary

In the context of Paladin, a **Notary** is a trusted entity or automated service responsible for validating transactions and enforcing rules within a specific privacy [domain](#domain) (like `noto`). The Notary acts as an arbiter for confidential transactions. Critically, it does not need to see the underlying private data (e.g., who is transacting or how much). Instead, it validates cryptographic commitments to that data, ensuring that all predefined rules are followed before approving a transaction.

***

### Paladin

A decentralized trust platform designed for building and deploying secure, interoperable, and scalable applications. It provides a full-stack environment with advanced cryptographic features, [atomic programmability](#atomic-programmability), and a [cloud-native](#cloud-native) architecture, enabling developers to build applications that require privacy and complex workflows.

***

### pente

> The **pente** domain provides a powerful environment for executing **private [EVM-compatible](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine) [smart contracts](#smart-contract)**. It creates what is effectively a "mini-blockchain within a single smart contract" on the base ledger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **pente** domain is a reference domain that provides a powerful environment for executing **private [EVM-compatible](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine) [smart contracts](#smart-contract)**. It creates what is effectively a "mini-blockchain within a single smart contract" on the base ledger.
```

***

### Transport

The **transport** is the underlying mechanism that handles the actual asynchronous transfer of messages and events between [Paladin](#paladin) runtimes. The architecture requires that all communication is end-to-end encrypted between the communicating runtimes, ensuring that even on a multi-hop journey, the data can only be decrypted by the final recipient.

***

### UTXO (Unspent Transaction Output)

The **UTXO** model is a method for tracking cryptocurrency ownership. Instead of storing funds as a balance in an account, a user's wallet holds a collection of discrete, **unspent transaction outputs** (UTXOs). This can be analogized to physical currency, where an individual's total funds consist of a collection of discrete bills and coins rather than a single numerical balance in a bank account. When a user wishes to make a payment, their wallet selects one or more of these UTXOs as inputs. The transaction consumes these inputs and creates new UTXOs as outputs: one for the recipient and, if necessary, one for the original user as "change."

***

### zeto

> The **zeto** domain is a **[UTXO](#utxo-unspent-transaction-output)**-based privacy-preserving token toolkit for **[EVM](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine)**. Unlike [noto](#noto), which relies on a trusted [Notary](#notary) for privacy, `zeto` uses advanced cryptography. It leverages **[Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs)](#zkp-zero-knowledge-proof)** to allow users to prove ownership and transact tokens without revealing any underlying confidential information. The technical implementation of these proofs is handled using **[Circom](#circom)**, a specialized language for creating ZKP circuits. For a developer, this makes `zeto` the tool of choice for applications that require the strongest level of cryptographically-guaranteed privacy for assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **zeto** domain is a reference domain that uses **[UTXO](#utxo-unspent-transaction-output)**-based privacy-preserving token toolkit for **[EVM](#evm-ethereum-virtual-machine)**. Unlike [noto](#noto), which relies on a trusted [Notary](#notary) for privacy, `zeto` uses advanced cryptography. It leverages **[Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs)](#zkp-zero-knowledge-proof)** to allow users to prove ownership and transact tokens without revealing any underlying confidential information. The technical implementation of these proofs is handled using **[Circom](#circom)**, a specialized language for creating ZKP circuits. For a developer, this makes `zeto` the tool of choice for applications that require the strongest level of cryptographically-guaranteed privacy for assets.
```
